README.md, before:

# Applied bioinformatics course final project

Final project for the course of Applied Bioinformatics from The Swedish National Graduate School in Medical Bioinformatics ([MedBioinfo](http://www.medbioinfo.se/))

## Dependencies:
  * python 3.8.10
  * wget 3.2
  * pandas 1.2.5
  * numpy 1.21.0
  * networkx 2.5.1
  * matplotlib 3.4.2
  * seaborn 0.11.1
  * operator
  * GNU make

## Assignment instructions:

Here we want you to explore whether proteins with a high node-degree in protein interaction networks, also have a larger number of protein domains.

To do so you should write a set of instructions and python scripts that:

1. Downloads the Homo sapiens part of STRING, a database from protein-protein interactions, from
https://stringdb-static.org/download/protein.links.v11.0/9606.protein.links.v11.0.txt.gz (Links to an external site.)
The link above is from their download page.
2. Create an interaction network by selecting the edges with a "combined score" larger or equal to 500, a number which indicates significance.
3. Partition the proteins in two groups, the ones with a node degree larger than 100 and one smaller or equal to 100.
4. Download the number of known protein-domains per Ensembl id from:
https://stockholmuniversity.box.com/s/n8l0l1b3tg32wrzg2ensg8dnt7oua8ex
This file was exported from Ensembl's BioMart (Links to an external site.) service and contains two columns: Pfam ID (for protein domains) and Ensembl protein ID (which is also used by the string database). Note: some proteins have no protein domain registered.
5. Make a boxplot, comparing the number of domains of proteins with node degrees >100 to the ones with node degrees <=100.
Create a GitHub repository containing a Makefile so that when we download the project we could run the following command to get a file "protein_domains_vs_string_degree.png":


```
git clone https://github.com/rodrigarc/medbioinfo_final_project
cd medbioinfo_final_project
make
```

Your project succeeds if we succeed reproducing the plot!

Commit message:

editing `make` to run a bash script instead

README.md, after:

# Applied bioinformatics course final project

Final project for the course of Applied Bioinformatics from The Swedish National Graduate School in Medical Bioinformatics ([MedBioinfo](http://www.medbioinfo.se/))

## Dependencies:
  * python 3.8.10
  * wget 3.2
  * pandas 1.2.5
  * numpy 1.21.0
  * networkx 2.5.1
  * matplotlib 3.4.2
  * seaborn 0.11.1
  * operator
  * GNU make

## Assignment instructions:

Here we want you to explore whether proteins with a high node-degree in protein interaction networks, also have a larger number of protein domains.

To do so you should write a set of instructions and python scripts that:

1. Downloads the Homo sapiens part of STRING, a database from protein-protein interactions, from
https://stringdb-static.org/download/protein.links.v11.0/9606.protein.links.v11.0.txt.gz (Links to an external site.)
The link above is from their download page.
2. Create an interaction network by selecting the edges with a "combined score" larger or equal to 500, a number which indicates significance.
3. Partition the proteins in two groups, the ones with a node degree larger than 100 and one smaller or equal to 100.
4. Download the number of known protein-domains per Ensembl id from:
https://stockholmuniversity.box.com/s/n8l0l1b3tg32wrzg2ensg8dnt7oua8ex
This file was exported from Ensembl's BioMart (Links to an external site.) service and contains two columns: Pfam ID (for protein domains) and Ensembl protein ID (which is also used by the string database). Note: some proteins have no protein domain registered.
5. Make a boxplot, comparing the number of domains of proteins with node degrees >100 to the ones with node degrees <=100.
Create a GitHub repository containing a Makefile so that when we download the project we could run the following command to get a file "protein_domains_vs_string_degree.png":

Your project succeeds if we succeed reproducing the plot!
```
git clone https://github.com/rodrigarc/medbioinfo_final_project
cd medbioinfo_final_project
bash run_script.sh
```

* run_script.sh calls `make`, I have done this because I wanted to load my conda environment (`environment.yml`) prior running make, so my environment is used. This approach was used to try to overcome the previous problem with the incompatible `pandas` version used.
